---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Releases - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# TFE Release v202111-1 (582)

### APPLICATION LEVEL BREAKING CHANGES:

* Certain application container images were updated to use Alpine 3.14 which has specific Docker, `runc`, and `libseccomp` version requirements. Please refer to [the Alpine 3.14 release notes](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Release_Notes_for_Alpine_3.14.0#faccessat2) to determine if your installation meets these new requirements before upgrading.

### APPLICATION LEVEL FEATURES:

* Added support for terraform-json 0.13.0
* Added increase github changed files probe for pull requests from 300 to 3000
* Added a `tfe-admin list-nodes` command to list all active nodes in an active/active installation.

### APPLICATION LEVEL BUG FIXES:

* Fixed an issue where a workspace throws errors if it's locked by a team or user that is then deleted.
* Fixed an issue where all workspaces attached to a particular VCS repo would occasionally become unable to process webhooks.
* Fixed an issue where log forwarding was not configured with HTTP proxy environment variables.
* Fixed the Terraform version selector (in the workspace settings) for workspaces that use a custom version constraint (like `~> *0.5`). The selector will now show the constraint instead of the latest version.
* Fixed an issue where visible teams weren't visible in Terraform Enterprise due to an incorrect SQL join.
* Fixed issue where users could continue to select beta version of Terraform via API, even as betas are not allowed on the associated organization.

### APPLICATION LEVEL SECURITY FIXES:

* Updated the version of the internally-managed Vault server to *8.4.
* Ongoing container updates to address reported vulnerabilities in underlying packages / dependencies.