---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Releases - Terraform Enterprise"
---

# TFE Release v202101-1 (504)

### UPCOMING DEPRECATION NOTIFICATIONS:
* The AWS CLI that ships with Terraform Enterprise will be upgraded to AWS CLI version 2 in the next Terraform Enterprise release (v202102-1). [Version 2 of the AWS CLI contains breaking changes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cliv2-migration.html) that could cause disruptions in custom builds. If you are currently using any AWS CLI features in your workspaces please prepare for the deprecation or migrate to a custom build image to continue using version AWS CLI version 1.

### APPLICATION LEVEL BREAKING CHANGES:
* The encryption password is no longer automatically generated and must be explicitly set by the user during installation. The encryption password can be set via the "Encryption Password" field for a manual installation and via the `enc_password` setting for an automated installation. Loss of the encryption password can lead to application data loss. To retrieve an installation's current encryption password, execute `replicatedctl app-config export --template '{{.enc_password.Value}}'`.

### APPLICATION LEVEL FEATURES:
* Enables the ability to run Terraform Enterprise in Active/Active configuration for increased reliability. If you’re interested in scaling your existing installation to two nodes, please reach out your Technical Account Manager for more information.

### APPLICATION LEVEL BUG FIXES:
* Fixed issue where Forgot Password emails would not send.
* Updated the error message shown when the encryption password is empty.

### APPLICATION LEVEL SECURITY FIXES: